To literally motivate yourself to do anything, don't tell yourself you can do it. Ask if you can do it. Here's why this matters. Your brain hates two things. Unanswered questions and being told things it doesn't believe. So, by trying to hype yourself up and motivate yourself to do this thing by saying, "Yeah, I can do it. I'll be fine. I got this." Just means the words are going to bounce off while your brain stares at you like what? But curiously asking whether you can do this thing means your brain is going to shift into problem solver mode and actively search for answers that move you towards action. Which means you're going to have a burst of a wellspring of motivation where you once where motivation once was not where you didn't feel motivated. You're going to get motivated out of nowhere. So here's exactly what to do next. socially. If you want to make a good impression on someone, you know, a first date or new people, but you're feeling a bit nervous before the interaction and you need a bit of a boost, don't tell yourself, "I'll be fine. I'm confident." Ask yourself, "What would a socially confident person do right now for work or studying?" If there's an intimidating project staring you in the face that you feel behind on, but you want to get over the line, don't tell yourself, "Oh, lock in and get this over the line." Ask yourself, "What would I have to do to make this happen?" And with finally, when it comes to your habits, if you feel like you're in a dopamine hole and you're procrastinating on the important things in your life right now and your life and energy is just slipping through your fingers, don't uh don't tell yourself, "Yeah, I'll get back on track and I'll make a good comeback." Ask yourself, what's the next thing I could do to build momentum? Or in any case, especially Louiswis's case, because tomorrow he's going to Spain and he's going to be driving on the other side of the road for the first time and he needs a bit of a boost. Just simply ask yourself, can I do it? Can I make this thing happen? And note that when you ask a question as simple as this, you're not asking for permission to do this thing. You're simply curiously questioning your ability to do it. And that is what gives you all the motivation you need to do it. So this is the bottom line of the whole video and the main thing I want you to remember and take away from it. So if this all makes sense, feel free to click off right now. But if you would like to go a few steps deeper and understand why this creates motivation out of nothing, you know, this curious form of selft talk, then here's exactly what we're going to cover in the next few minutes of this video. First of all, we'll cover the brief origins of this type of selft talk. Then we'll cover why it works, the quick science bite, and then we'll finalize with the five type five types of questions you can ask yourself that get you unstuck. Let's go. The origins. Asking yourself questions in this way is a form of selft talk known as interrogative selft talk. And the origins of it are a bit of a mix. It comes from sports psychology, CBT, emotional regulation research just to name a few. But in 2010, there was a pivotal study that showed when these researchers got people to hype themselves up in order to follow through on a task and actually do it with declarative selft talk such as I will do this, you know, I'm capable and I can do this. They noticed that whether those participants actually did the task or not increased a little bit. But when they used interrogative selft talk you know asked they asked themselves whether they could do it or not that increased follow through a lot more whether they actually did the task or not. So their main research finding these researchers in 2010 was that asking yourself questions engages your brain differently than giving your brain statements. Cognitive behavioral therapy CBT is a form of psychological therapy was banging on about this years ago. And what they found is if you're a therapist trying to help your patient work through an emotional or cognitive problem, trying to argue with their thoughts doesn't work. Instead, asking your patient questions helps them loosen their rigid thinking much better. So, this leads us into the next question, which is, well, why does asking your self questions engage your brain differently than statements? There are four reasons why interrogative selft talk in other words asking yourself questions not only engages your brain differently but is so effective. The first reason is because it bypasses psychological resistance. The second is because questions activate search not defense. The third is because they also reduce identity threat. And the fourth and final is because they use your brain's completion bias. But what the hell do all of these things mean? They sound fancy, but well, let's get into it. Here's what these four points mean a step further. The first reason as to why interrogative selft talk is so effective is very simple as are the last three. Questions bypass psychological resistance. All we're saying here is your brain hates being told what to do even by you. So when you use declarative selft talk along the lines of I must, I will, I should. Yeah, this might work and increase your motivation in some scenarios, but most of the time it just increases the pressure your brain feels to act. Therefore, it will want to resist that action. Asking questions on the other hand with curiosity such as how could I or what's one way I could increase your feelings and sense of autonomy. Here's why this matters. Autonomy is one of the key ingredients of psychological flourishing and all it is is your sense of how much control you have over taking action towards this thing or not. Psychologists have known for years through self-determination theory that your sense of autonomy if that increases so so too does your motivation to do something increase. Hence it's such a key ingredient of psychological flourishing. The bottom line is the less autonomy your brain feels to do something or not, the more it will resist what you're actually trying to get it to do in this case, which is act. The second reason as to why interrogative selft talk is so effective is questions activate search not defense. When you curiously ask yourself questions, your brain automatically engages the problem solving networks and the pattern matching systems as well. When you use declarative selft talk, your brain goes into self-evaluation mode asking itself, well, is this statement true? And it also weighs up what that statement means against the identities that you currently hold. The bottom line here is asking yourself questions puts your brain into problem solver mode rather than evaluator mode. which is important if you want to achieve something. You need your brain in problem solver mode, not a value waiter mode. The the third reason the s dude the third reason is the third reason is because questions reduce identity threat. Human behavior gets incredibly sticky and complicated when there is a mismatch between who you are and who you want to be. So when you use declarative selft talk along the lines of I am disciplined I am confident but deep down your brain doesn't believe that that creates a lot of tension because it's stemming from a place of inongruence you know there's a misalignment between your actions and the identity that you want to have and that in congruence takes a lot of energy to be maintained because your brain is constantly trying to evaluate who you are and your image of yourself based on the things that you're telling yourself and if those things don't match up. It's overanalyzing and that takes a lot of energy to do, you know, overanalyzing. But when you snap [snorts] yourself out of that inongruence and entertain the possibilities within the questions of well, what would a disciplined ver what would a disciplined person do right now? Or what would a confident person do right now? Your brain can work with this because it's not like you're trying to force an identity which clearly doesn't ma match your actions right now. Instead, it's almost as if you're seeing yourself in the third person, and you're not trying to cement yourself into a hole you don't fit into. Instead, you're simply expanding your mind open to the possibility of stepping into a new hole. Probably should have scripted that part, but do you get the point? You What else was I going to say? Yeah. Shortens the distance by making you see yourself in the third person. It's now no longer I want to be this person but I'm not. It's what if I were like this. And your brain works best with the latter. Let me know in the comments if that doesn't make sense. But let's move on. Nevertheless, final reason. The final reason why interrogative selft talk is so effective is my favorite one is because it uses your brain's completion bias. This is so cool. I'll explain it quickly. Unanswered questions make your brain squirm in it just makes it wrigle. Your brain hates unanswered questions because whenever you are ask a question that creates an open loop which runs as background noise in your brain and your brain understands something very clearly about open loops which is they require energy to be maintained and they cause a lot of tension. So your brain knows that if it closes that loop by ask answering that question, it's going to get all of that energy back and it's going to relieve all of that tension. That's why your brain squirms and it helps you actively search for an answer to this question and move you toward action. What does this explain here? one very clear thing which is e this explains why when you're in a state of low motivation maybe you're in a dopamine hole when you're spiraling into procrastination or what have you and you have no energy asking the right question you know interrogative styly can seem to just move you towards action even when that's the last thing you want to do and by asking that question your brain goes on the offensive searches for it answers the question and then once it's answered you seem to get a abundance of wellsp springs of energy back. Where did that come from? Oh, my brain closed a loop. Yeah, what am I doing with my life? So, now we've covered the four reasons and the quick science bite. Let's end on a practical note. Here are the five types of interrogative questions that you can keep close and ask yourself whenever you need them most. The first three types of interrogative self-t talk questions are, and by the way, seems like a lot, we'll whiz through them. And by the way, on in the pinned comment on this video, I'll put these notes so you can take the examples and everything we're covering here so you don't have to think, oh, I got to memorize everything. The first type of question is initiation questions. The purpose of these, they help you start movement and decrease your activation energy to do something. Use these when you feel frozen, avoidant, or overwhelmed. Just three examples are, what's the smallest step I could take in the next five minutes? Question mark. If I were allowed to do this badly, how would I start? What a question. And what would just opening the door look like here? You could ask that ask these questions in any scenario. Socially, work, you know, procrastination. O, that is a great one to use socially. What would just opening the door look like here? You know, if you want to approach someone or you want to start a conversation with someone, what would just opening the door look like here? Awesome stuff. The second type of question is friction reducing questions. Kind of similar, slightly different. The purpose here is they help you identify hidden resistance and they help you tweak the task in front of you or the environment that is causing this resistance. They help you reveal energy mismatches between what's going on inside and this actual thing that you want to face and over complexity. key thing to use or the key scenario to use these friction reducing questions is when you want to do something but you keep delaying it for whatever reason. Here are some examples. What's making this harder than it needs to be? What part of this could I remove, simplify or delay? And how could I make this 20% easier or lighter right now? Love that. Very similar, slightly different context. The third type of question, so we got three more. are agency restoring questions. Agency is your you could define it in a few ways. Your ability to make things happen, you know, yeah, actually step into action. The purpose of these types of questions are they restore choice and help you reestablish control. Use these when you feel stuck or trapped. Few examples. What part of this is actually within my control? What's adjustable here if nothing else is? I really like that one because it's very realistic. It's not saying, you know, I have full control over everything depending on what's in front of you. It's realistic and meets you where you are. And then finally, if I had to choose something, what would I choose to do next? I also like that question because it's very similar to what would just opening the door look like here. Okay, the last two. And remember, top pinned comment, you can find all of these. So, don't worry if you feel we're going a little bit quick and you would like to note these questions down. They're all there. Final two. The second to last type of question is identity bridge questions. The purpose here is they're helping you separate your worth from performance and they help you experiment without deciding who you are. I love that because that ties back into what we were saying with the problem with declarative selft talk. It highlights a in congruence between who you are and who you want to be. Questions, on the other hand, open you to the possibility and help you think more about yourself in third person. So, this is what these types of questions specifically help you with. You can use them when your identity feels a little bit fragile, inconsistent, or you get that inner background noise of inongruence. Some examples, what would a more confident version of me try here? That would be absolutely awesome to do in a use in a social scenario, right? Another one. If this were an experiment, what would I test first? That reminds me of the open what would the open opening the door look like here? Then finally, what would my future self want me to do right now? Think of these questions as a glimpse into the type of person you would like to move into and that identity you would like to form into. And then you're using that future instruction to guide your present action. Final types of questions is or are reflection without rumination questions. This is awesome and I think I would, me personally, I'd benefit most from these. The purpose here is to help you learn, prevent shame spirals and look forward, not inward. Hence the emphasis on reflection, not rumination. You want to use these after action or discomfort as a way to clean up any mess that happened. Some examples, what did this teach me for next time? What would I do differently if this came up again? Or what would I do slightly differently? That kind of changes the tone of the question. And what's one adjustment that would improve the next attempt? Two contexts I'm thinking about for this. Maybe after a breakup, you know, perhaps a relationship or a friendship ends and you're feeling like you're spiraling down into that doom of pit or doom of grief. These would be really questions to get your brain on your side and collaborate and go on the search for the answers for if that makes sense. And the other context I was thinking about is if you're trying new things socially, that would be great to have these questions close at hand so that you can step into these new social experiences. Maybe there's the potential for rejection and them not going well. So after you can digest them without rumination and shattering your identity in a clean way. Right, I'm waffling on a little bit too much. Those are the questions. Pick out one to three perhaps from the pinned comment and just keep them down. Note them down on a flash card so you can use in whatever context you are. You know whether you're wanting to achieve more things in work, socializing or you you know maybe you're in a procrastination spiral right now. But if you want to keep it really simple then always remember interrogative selft talk largely involves the question of can I right? We'll leave it there. Thank you very much for your time and attention. I've got more than enough pens in my hand. Stay disciplined, playful, and dangerous. I'll let you know how driving on the other side of the road goes in the next video or in the comments. Adios, muchachos. Muchachos. They're kind of zoned out there. All right, bye.